In the field of International Relations, diplomacy and the creation of legislation is essential to improving the lives of others. Our efforts to reach true globalization have continued to sustain the relations between countries that have partnerships within governments through interdependence such as the future militarization of Taiwan being supported by the United States to defend against China, which is contesting the land as it still considers the country as part of its own borders. However, ever since the spread of COVID-19, face-to-face interactions on issues like these have given rise to tensions that could be alleviated through diplomacy. According to the theory of constructivism in international relations, state actors retain their separate identities and do not necessarily see anarchy in the international system. The state’s interests stem from socially constructed facts and notions that countries have about each other, which ultimately leads to how they perceive each other on the global stage. With the presence of the pandemic, negative notions about other states’ actions can be amplified as face-to-face diplomacy on issues such as Taiwan being contested become more risky. 

Moving forward on the issue of limited diplomacy, I believe humanitarian issues should be prioritized as that has become the most troublesome task for most countries in the world. As global economies continue to fall into an abyss, global crises also continue to plague civilians in areas such as the Israeli-Palestine conflict, which has persisted for a whopping 54 years. Many health infrastructures have taken a hit from these crises and have not been able to treat both people who have suffered injuries from attacks and contracted coronavirus. This calls for stricter domestic policies that can decrease COVID-19 rates in order to reach some sort of normalcy. However, the use of many smart devices to contact officials through surveys and meetings can also prove to be a solid tool to rekindle the diplomatic ties that countries have with one another. 
