The Human Development Index is a system in which countries are ranked based on how likely they are to accommodate their populations with respect to knowledge, health, and standard of living. In order to depict this on a figure, researchers took these indicators to establish separate indexes that could then be observed together by taking a geometric mean. The values for this geometric index of countries range from 0.599 to 0.800, ranking countries as high or low developmentally. An indicator that was not fully accounted for in this model is social mobility and government structure. An additional index for these countries that observes these factors will help researchers better understand why education and healthcare systems are inaccessible to many low-income countries and possibly provide insight on areas that need to be targeted in order to effectively come up with solutions. The measurement of how many people are progressively making it out of poverty rather than just measuring these indicator levels solely on the region’s representation as a whole will paint a more accurate picture of human development and avoid the implementation of representative heuristics. Another indicator that I feel should be added to the index is how likely developmental technologies are to reach these places across the globe. This may be examined by looking at the leadership in every country, which could be deeply embedded in cultural and corrupted roots. Since this measurement should also be representative of the future and not just the current state of countries, an indicator for this would also promote international communication and possibly raise the chances of these technologies being adopted without labeling countries as incompetent. 
